Assignment	4
For	this	assignment,	you	will	write	the	email	text	for	an	email	that	needs	to	apologize	as	well	as	
make	a	request	in	a	professional	way.	This	time,	you	are	helping	a	person	named	Martina	Silva.	
First,	let's	look	at	the	situation	Martina	is	in:

Martina's	Situation
Martina	has	a	business	partner	named	Carl	in	England.	In	her	last	email	to	Carl,	Martina	asked	
for	the	signatures	of	Carl’s	bosses	so	that	she	could	finalize	their	business	deal.	However,	
Martina	forgot	to	attach	the	documents	that	needed	to	be	signed	to	her	email	message.	One	of	
the	main	issues	is	that	the	deadline	for	the	deal	is	coming	soon,	so	she	needs	to	write	a	
request/apology	email	to	Carl	as	soon	as	possible.


SAMPLE APOLOGY LETTER


Subject: Apology Letter

Dear Carl,

Last week I asked you for your bosses signature to finalize the deal and sent you an email regarding the same but, I'm extremely sorry 
that I forgot to attach the documents. I know this has caused a lot of delay and inconvenience and I am truly sorry for it.
      I would request you to please explain the situation to your superiors. Also, it would be a great help if the signatures are send as 
soon as possible because the deadline for the deal is coming soon. Please check the documents that are attached below.
      I assure you this won't happen again. Thank you for understanding and coping up with the situation. Please feel free to contact for
any further concerns.

Sincerely,

Martina


How to write Apology Emails?

The three different expressions that are commonly used in emails are:
1: I’m sorry if,
2: I’m sorry that,
3: I’m sorry about,

1: I’m sorry if,
This apology is used when the writer is not sure about his/her level of responsibility for the situation. It’s better to apologize first,
and take the blame rather that to give the impression that you are blaming the other person.
Eg: I’m sorry if, I didn’t understand the directions correctly.

2: I’m sorry that,
This type of apology is used when the writer is 100%sure of his responsibility for the situation. Again, you will write I’m sorry 
followed by the description of the mistake.
Eg: I’m sorry that our meeting next week needs to be cancelled. Please check the new dates below at your convenience.    

3: I’m sorry about,
This is used to write apology for small slip-up or errors.
Eg: I’m sorry about the confusion/delay/inconvenience. I will send you a new document with correct address shortly.



